=head1 NAME

rapid-photo-downloader - Downloads, renames and backs up photos and videos from cameras, phones,
memory cards and other devices

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<rapid-photo-downloader> [options] [path]

Options:

    -h, --help
    --version
    --detailed-version
    -v, --verbose
    --debug
    -e, --extensions
    --photo-renaming {on,off}
    --video-renaming {on,off}
    -a {on,off}, --auto-detect {on,off}
    -t {on,off}, --this-computer {on,off}
    --this-computer PATH
    --photo-destination PATH
    --video-destination PATH
    -b {on,off}, --backup {on,off}
    --backup-auto-detect {on,off}
    --photo-backup-identifier FOLDER
    --video-backup-identifier FOLDER
    --photo-backup-location PATH
    --video-backup-location PATH
    --ignore-other-photo-file-types
    --auto-download-startup {on,off}
    --auto-download-device-insertion {on,off}
    --thumbnail-cache {on,off}
    --delete-thumbnail-cache
    --forget-remembered-files
    --import-old-version-preferences
    --reset
    --log-gphoto2
    --camera-info


=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Rapid Photo Downloader> imports photos and videos from cameras, phones,
memory cards and other devices at high speed. It can be configured to
rename photos and videos with meaningful filenames you specify. It can also
back up photos and videos as they are downloaded. It downloads from and backs
up to multiple devices simultaneously.

Unique to Rapid Photo Downloader is its Timeline, which groups photos and
videos based on how much time elapsed between consecutive shots. Use it to
identify photos and videos taken at different periods in a single day or
over consecutive days.

Files are downloaded from two different types of sources: (1) one or more
automatically detected devices like cameras, phones, memory cards, and external
drives; and (2) a single manually specified path, shown in the user interface as
"This Computer".

=head1 PATH

Optional value that when specified, is parsed to determine if it represents an
automatically detected device or a path on this computer.

If the path represents an automatically detected device, automatic detection of
devices is turned on, as in the B<--auto-detect> option. Furthermore, downloading from a manually
specified path as in the B<--this-computer-location> option is turned off.

Otherwise, the path is assumed to be a manually specified path as in the
B<--this-computer-location> option, in which case downloading from this computer is turned on
and downloading from automatically detected devices is turned off.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h, --help>

Show help message and exit.

=item B<--version>

Displays information about the currently installed version and exits.

=item B<--detailed-version>

Displays information about the currently installed version and its libraries and exits.

=item B<-v, --verbose>

Displays program information on the command line as the program runs.

=item B<--debug>

Displays debugging information on the command line as the program runs

=item B<-e, --extensions>

Displays image file extensions the program recognizes and exits.

=item B<--photo-renaming {on,off}>

Turn on or off the the renaming of photos while downloading,
overwriting existing program preferences. If turned on,
the renaming scheme used will incorporate the photo's metadata date, time,
the number of downloads today, and the file extension in lower case:
S<C<YYYYMMDD-HHMM-E<lt>DownloadsTodayE<gt>.E<lt>LowercaseExtensionE<gt>>>,
e.g. 20160512-1309-23.jpg.

=item B<--video-renaming {on,off}>

Turn on or off the the renaming of videos while downloading,
overwriting existing program preferences. If turned on,
the renaming scheme used will incorporate the video's metadata date, time,
the number of downloads today, and the file extension in lower case:
S<C<YYYYMMDD-HHMM-E<lt>DownloadsTodayE<gt>.E<lt>LowercaseExtensionE<gt>>>,
e.g. 20160512-1429-26.mp4.

=item B<-a {on,off}, --auto-detect {on,off}>

Turn on or off the automatic detection of devices from which to download, 
overwriting existing program preferences.

=item B<-t {on,off}, --this-computer {on,off}>

Turn on or off downloading from this computer (see description above),
overwriting existing program preferences.

=item B<--this-computer-location PATH>

The PATH on this computer from which to download, overwriting existing program 
preferences.

=item B<--photo-destination PATH>

Sets the PATH where photos will be downloaded to, overwriting existing program
preferences.

=item B<--video-destination PATH>

Sets the PATH where videos will be downloaded to, overwriting existing program
preferences.

=item B<-b {on,off}, --backup {on,off}>

Turns on or off the backing up of photos and videos while downloading, overwriting
existing program preferences.

=item B<--backup-auto-detect {on,off}>

Turns on or off the automatic detection of backup devices, overwriting
existing program preferences.

=item B<--photo-backup-identifier FOLDER>

Sets the FOLDER in which backups are stored on the automatically detected photo backup 
device, with the folder's name being used to identify whether or not the device
is used for backups. For each device you wish to use for backing up photos to, 
create a folder on it with this name. Overwrites existing program preferences.

=item B<--video-backup-identifier FOLDER>

Sets the FOLDER in which backups are stored on the automatically detected video backup 
device, with the folder's name being used to identify whether or not the device
is used for backups. For each device you wish to use for backing up videos to, 
create a folder on it with this name. Overwrites existing program preferences.

=item B<--photo-backup-location PATH>

Sets the PATH where photos will be backed up when automatic detection of backup devices
is turned off. Overwrites existing program preferences.

=item B<--video-backup-location PATH>

Sets the PATH where videos will be backed up when automatic detection of backup devices
is turned off. Overwrites existing program preferences.

=item B<--ignore-other-photo-file-types>

Do not download photos with the following extensions: TIF, TIFF and MPO.

=item B<--auto-download-startup {on,off}>

Turns on or off starting downloads as soon as the program itself starts.

=item B<--auto-download-device-insertion {on,off}>

Turns on or off starting downloads as soon as a device is inserted.

=item B<--thumbnail-cache {on,off}>

Turns on or off use of the Rapid Photo Downloader Thumbnail Cache. Turning it off does not
delete existing cache contents.

=item B<--delete-thumbnail-cache>

Deletes all thumbnails in the Rapid Photo Downloader Thumbnail Cache, and exits.

=item B<--forget-remembered-files>

Forgets which files have been previously downloaded, and exits.

=item B<--import-old-version-preferences>

Imports preferences from an old program version (S<0.4.11> or earlier), and exits. Requires the
command line program S<gconftool-2>.

=item B<--reset>

Resets all program settings to their default values, deletes all thumbnails in the Thumbnail
cache, forgets which files have been previously downloaded, and exits.

=item B<--log-gphoto2>

Includes gphoto2 debugging information in log files, which can be useful when analyzing
any problems libgphoto2 might have accessing a camera.

=item B<--camera-info>

Print information to the terminal about attached cameras and exit.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

If the environment variable RPD_SCAN_DEBUG is set to any value, the program's scan
operation will output voluminous debug information to stdout.

If the environment variable RPD_DEVEL_DEFAULTS is set to any value, the program's default
preferences will be set to those of a development environment.


=head1 SEE ALSO

analyze-pv-structure(1)

=head1 AUTHORS

B<Rapid Photo Downloader> was written by Damon Lynch <damonlynch@gmail.com>.

This manual page was written by Damon Lynch.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option) any
later version.

On Debian GNU/Linux systems, the complete text of the GNU General
Public License can be found in `/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL'.

=cut
