=head1 NAME

rapid-photo-downloader - imports photos and videos from cameras, memory cards and other devices

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<rapid-photo-downloader> [options]

Options:
  --version         
  -h, --help        
  -v, --verbose
  -q, --quiet
  -e, --extensions
  --focal-length=FOCAL_LENGTH
  -a, --auto-detect
  -l PATH, --device-location=PATH
  --reset-settings
  
=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<Rapid Photo Downloader> imports photos and videos from cameras, memory cards and Portable
Storage Devices, providing a variety of flexible, user-defined options for subfolder creation,
photo and video renaming, and backup. It can download from more than one device in parallel.


=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--version>

Displays information about the currently installed version and exits.

=item B<-h, --help>

Show help message and exit.

=item B<-v, --verbose>

Displays program information on the command line as the program runs.

=item B<-d, --debug>

Displays debugging information on the command line as the program runs

=item B<-q, --quiet>

Only display output errors and warnings to the command line as the program runs.

=item B<-e, --extensions>

Displays image file extensions the program recognizes and exits.

=item B<--focal-length=FOCAL_LENGTH>

If an aperture value of 0.0 is encountered, the focal length metadata will be set to the 
number passed, and its aperture metadata to f/8.

=item B<-a, --auto-detect>

Automatically detect devices from which to download, overwriting existing program preferences.

=item B<-l PATH, --device-location=PATH>

Manually specify the PATH of the device from which to download, overwriting existing program 
preferences.

=item B<--reset-settings>

Resets all program settings and preferences to their default values and exits.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

=over

=item B<LOCALEDIR>

If set, overrides the system-wide directory in which translation data will be searched for.

=item B<LANG>

The system-wide locale used for translations.

=back

=head1 BUGS

* Support for downloading directly from cameras is experimental. Not all cameras are supported.

Please report bugs at https://bugs.launchpad.net/rapid

=head1 AUTHORS

B<Rapid Photo Downloader> was written by Damon Lynch <damonlynch@gmail.com>.

This manual page was written by Damon Lynch.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any
later version.

On Debian GNU/Linux systems, the complete text of the GNU General
Public License can be found in `/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL'.

=cut

